---
layout: post
title:  "Why do I want to learn to code?"
date:   2017-08-22 20:44:20 +0000
---


I have been singing since before I could form full sentences. Simply put, I sing because it is my innate cathartic method. The vibrations it creates in my body fascinate and soothe me. With time, I discovered, and continue to discover, that not everyone makes music for the same reasons. This was difficult for me to accept for a very long time, but I’m getting there.
	I began playing piano around age 4. Like singing, the vibrations became an environment for exploration and therapy. I had a difficult time reconciling the performance aspect of the art form, and still do. I’d tell my mother that I play for myself, not for other people. I didn’t really have anyone around me who understood that.
	About 3 years ago, I finally decided to go to music school. For the past 3 years, I have been enrolled part-time (so that I could hold down a fulltime job at a law firm working on consumer justice, employment, and labor law). I’ll be graduating in a couple weeks. When I was accepted with a hefty scholarship, I had also been accepted to Hastings Law School in San Francisco with funding. My decision to forego a legal education and to pursue a less vocational, and more creative path was all about giving myself the space and time to do what I knew in my core I needed to do. I decided that art doesn’t wait, but the law will be there, unchanged and entrenched as it is, for the rest of my life. Over the past few years, I’ve become certain the law isn’t the place for me.
	That said, I also knew that no institution could give you art, or the ability to create it. I entered Berklee with the notion that this could be a place and a time for me to pry open parts of myself that I’d been avoiding, as a practice. And that in opening myself over and over, it would become easier and easier. In many ways, it was an effort to return to my artistic child self, before expectation, and bad instruction had poisoned my process. One week away from my “senior recital”, as they call it, I can say that I found what I was looking for at Berklee, and I’m ready to continue my path as a music maker independent of the college.
	When I’m not behind an instrument, or propelling soundwaves into the air, I’m a writer, and an activist. I studied political economics at UC Berkeley as an undergrad, and have a background in movement building around sex and gender justice, human rights, and economic justice. Like so many, I’m disenchanted with the non-profit world, particularly as a young and queer woman of color. Prior to working in law for over 4 years, I worked for a non-profit providing humanitarian aid to refugee children. Currently, I consult with an economic justice oriented non-profit in Boston.
Naturally, my identity as a first generation Palestinian-American queer woman artist informs all of the above.
	In short, the reason I want to learn to code is because I believe it is among the most powerful hard skills a young queer woman of color who is only interested in creative mission-driven work can have. I have never been able to sit idle. Apathy and complacency haven’t gotten me yet. I’m still, and hope to remain, content only in thrashing against what shouldn’t be, and towards a (likely unattainable) new reality. 
Concretely speaking, I want to be a part of building smart, sustainable, and creative solutions for communities and populations that are most vulnerable, and most affected by power and wealth disparity, while simultaneously providing myself a viable creative professional path.

